So we set everything up in the last lecture,
now let's create our form.
Now we could initialize it right here to set a value immediately but I don't like to do this here,
I want to have it in a method because it actually is quite a lot of code and it's not the best place
to have that right
here at the top in the property declaration area.
So I will use the onInit lifecycle hook for this,
so I will import onInit,
make sure to import it from @angular/core and therefore I'm required to implement the ngOnInit
method
and in here, I will initialize my form.
You should initialize it before rendering the template of course, so make sure to use a lifecycle hook
which is called before the template is rendered.
Here I will set up my signupForm and I will set it equal to, to what?
Well keep in mind, signupForm is of type FormGroup, so we need to create a new FormGroup here, just
like this.
Now we have almost a valid form, we need to pass a Javascript object here and we're theoretically done,
this is our first created form. This Javascript object configures it and as it's empty, it simply says
or it tells Angular,
hey this form doesn't have any controls, so let's add some. Controls are basically just key-value pairs in
this object we pass to the overall FormGroup.
So let's have a look at our HTML code,
we have a username field and an e-mail field and then we get the radio buttons here at the bottom,
so it would make sense to have a username control.
I'm wrapping this in quotation marks to make sure that during minification when this code gets
mangled, this property name is kept because I will reference it in the HTML code.
This might not be necessary,
it might not get destroyed but just to be sure, I'm wrapping it as a string.
So here, what is this now?
Well this is a FormControl, another class made available by the reactive forms module or by this
forms package here
I should say. So I will set up or create a new FormControl here and FormControl should also be added
from the forms package, from @angular/forms.
Now to this FormControl constructor, we can pass a couple of arguments,
the first argument is the initial state, the initial value of this control you could say.
The second argument will be a single validator or an array of validators we want to apply to this control,
I'll come back
to this. The third argument will be potential asynchronous validators,
I will also come back to this later.
For now, I want to set an initial state of null to have an empty field but you could also pass a string
like default username
and now this would later be displayed as a default username, again
I'll keep it at null for now.
Now, have a look at the template again, the next field is the e-mail.
So I'm going to add another control, another key-value pair in this Javascript object which
will also be a new FormControl
and here, I will also set a default value of null, again validation will be added later.
Now gender, this gender the user selects is also a new FormControl,
it might be a radio button but that is just a normal input in the end,
so to Angular, it simply is a control
and here I could set this to null
but I want to select the default gender.
So here, I will actually select male because that's my gender,
feel free to pick female of course or add more genders to this array of genders up here to begin with. With
this, a basic form is initialized,
it has three controls and that is all for now,
this is our first basic form. Now in the next lecture,
we're going to connect this form we created here in TypeScript to our form
we have set up in the HTML code.